# E-Voting Platform

E-voting is a desktop application based on Java Swing that provides a platform for organizing elections and can be used easily to work with a campus based election system consisting of different organizers, voters specific to those organizers and the overall collaborative process. The project uses MySQL database for setting up the necessary data. It also utilizes SMTP based OTP verification for registration and voter identity verification. The overall focus of the project is to develop a database based application using Java swing with some differences that are introduced with the nature of application.
The application works with the help of three types of users: User (Normal users which could be candidates and voters), Election Organizers and Administrators.

1. **Admin Module**
This module handles the managing part and decision making part of the software. It approves the registration of any user or of the newly coming election organizing body. Also, it can explicitly register on the behalf of a user and an organizing body, based on the details given. It also approves the contesting of an election if any organizing body requests for it. It accepts feedback from the users and view the feedback given by different users.
2. **Election organizing Module**
For organizing an election on this software, any election body has to be first registered on the application. The approval for the same will be sent to admin. Now whenever it wants to contest an election, it will give election regarding details to the admin, who will decide whether the election will be conducted or not. If the election is approved, this body/module will decide which of the registered users can vote for the organized election. All the approvals for candidature will be accepted/rejected by this module. As and when, the elections will be approved, an event will be set to start and end the election on the given date and according to the duration. The result and the count of the vote of any election will be first seen by only the organizing body. The election results will be shown to users only if this module publishes the result by declaring the winner. It can remove its account and discontinue from the application. 
3. **User Module**
To use voting power, a user has to first apply for registration which will be approved/rejected by admin. Using this, a user can keep track of the upcoming election. If any user is an eligible voter, he/she can apply for candidature by giving details, which will be seen by the corresponding organizing body of that election. Any user can also vote for the given election if it has been initiated and he/she is eligible. User can also view the details of different candidates of an election. It can see the result of any election as soon as the corresponding head of organization decides to show it. It can also provide feedback to the admin regarding software. Like organizing body, any user can remove the account from the application. 

**Note**: Every module will have some basic functionalities like logging in to the application and changing password. They will also have the ability to view user, election organizer and election details. Also, every unregistered user will be able to check for the Registration approval status if he/she has applied for the same.

The working of application is also demonstrated in the screenshots directory.

## Running the application
The database first needs to be setup using the schema as described in the DB_schema directory. The database used here is of MySQL. The configurations for database and SMTP needs to be provided in the two properties file of the resources folder of the project. To run the application, the folder Evoting under the code directory can be imported into any IDE like eclipse and then ran as Java application. The file to be selected at startup is setIPform which will enable the user to set IP address of the MySQL database. Also, it is necessary to create an admin user for the application using database to enable proper functioning.

